---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: true
keywords: []
description: '“What is one thing that I believe to be true, that very few can agree on.” — Peter Thiel'
datePublished: '2016-04-13T21:12:17.347Z'
dateModified: '2016-04-13T21:11:35.778Z'
title: |
  Synonymous Thoughts With The Worlds First Philosopher:
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-04-13-.md
published: true
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
url: fc45a2e3-94fa-4985-8d82-e6c1f9854572/index.html
_type: Article

---
> **_"We don't rise to the level of our expectations, we fall to the level of our training." _****__**-- Archilochus

> "What is one thing that I believe to be true, that very few can agree on." --- Peter Thiel

"Raise the bar on your business philosophy, dig deeper into your craft. You want to be an equally good architect as you are a mason. You've got to be able to simultaneously think at a high level and get your hands dirty."  --- Gary Vaynerchuck

**__**

> _**["Discipline equals freedom." -- Jocko Willink][0]**_

# Synonymous Thoughts With The Worlds First Philosopher:

1. Plato was the world's "first" philosopher---someone has to ask the questions no one else is asking. (see _Notes on Eric Wienstein_) 
2. Plato devoted his life to one goal: helping people to reach a state of what he termed: εὐδαιμονία
3. Plato proposed that our lives go wrong in large part because we almost never give ourselves time to think carefully and logically enough about our plans.
4. Plato observes ideas are derived from what the crowd thinks---We observed ideas of εὐδαιμονία are derived from  going against the crowd. 
5. Plato repeatedly wrote, the essence of philosophy came down to the command to: γνῶθι σεαυτόνd --- 'Know yourself'--- Self-discovery in the modern sense. 
6. Plato's thoughts on love was in essence a kind of education: you couldn't really love someone if you didn't want to be improved by them---Or you couldn't really accept difficult times if you didn't think they'd help you in the future. (See _Growth Mindset_)
  * Plato's theory when you fall in love---what's really going on is that you have seen in another person some good quality which you haven't got---therefor getting close to this person, you can become a little like they are. They can help you to grow to your full potential
  * A good relationship has to mean we won't love the other person exactly as they are. It means committing to helping them become a better version of themselves -- and to endure the stormy passages this inevitably involves -- while also not resisting their attempts to improve us.
7. Plato asked why do we like beautiful things? And he found a fascinating reason: we recognise in them a part of 'the good'---We recognize beauty in the experiences and authenticity in others
  * Beautiful objects therefore have a really important function. They invite us to evolve in their direction, to become as they are. Beauty can educate our souls.
8. Plato sees art as therapeutic: it is the duty of poets and painters (and nowadays, novelists, television producers and designers) to help us live good lives.

> "It really matters who we admire, for celebrities to influence our outlook, ideas and conduct. And bad heroes give glamour to flaws of character."    --- Plato, _[The Book of Life][1]_

_****_

_**Eric Weisberg on [The Tim Ferriss Show][2]** talking about High Agency --- "_when your told something is impossible, is that the end of the conversation or does that start a second dialog in your mind that asks how to get around this. Constantly looking at what is possible."

__

_Thinking about my journey to becoming a skipper.._

_... _to have the courage of your convictions and think for yourself---and "face the fear that happens when you start swimming away from the shore, that you're not going to find a next island before your strength gives out." 

**"Eudaimonia: **almost means 'happiness' but is really closer to **fulfillment, because 'happiness' suggests continuous chirpiness -- whereas 'fulfillment' is more compatible with periods of great pain and suffering -- which seem to be an unavoidable part even of a good life."**

How did Plato propose to make people more fulfilled? How do we propose to make people more fulfilled? 

**Four central ideas stand out in his work, and my experiences.**

1. Think Harder
2. Love More Wisely
3. The Importance of Beauty
4. Changing Society
  * We need new heroes
  * We need censorship  
  * Better Education 
  * Better Childhoods

> "Just fucking do it. Go all in. Put your nuts on the table and say this is all I have, and at the end of the day if you fall on your face the plane ticket is only a $1000."  --- Captain Rick, USVI

> **'If you're lonely when you're alone, you're in bad company.' - Jean-Paul Sartre**

> 



[0]: http://amzn.to/23ENfee
[1]: http://www.thebookoflife.org/the-great-philosophers-plato/
[2]: http://fourhourworkweek.com/2016/01/13/eric-weinstein/